docs/validator.md, before:

# 🚀 Validator Guide for Subnet 36

## 📋 System Requirements

### **Linux Distribution Support**

Our `install_dependencies.sh` script currently supports:

- **Ubuntu 22.04 LTS** (Jammy) ✅
- **Ubuntu 24.04 LTS** (Noble) ✅

⚠️ **Note**: For other Ubuntu versions, manually adjust dependencies in the installation script.

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

The deployment uses a **modular architecture** - each component can be deployed separately:

| Component       | Requirements         | Notes             |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| **Validator**   | CPU only             | Lightweight setup |
| **LLM Service** | OpenAI API or Chutes | No GPU required   |
| **Demo Webs**   | CPU only             | Docker required   |

💡 **Tip**: Components can run on different machines - configure `.env` with appropriate URLs.

---

## 🔧 1. Initial Setup

### **Repository Setup**

Clone the repositories as siblings:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/autoppia/autoppia_web_agents_subnet
git clone https://github.com/autoppia/autoppia_iwa.git          # IWA (main)
git clone https://github.com/autoppia/autoppia_webs_demo.git    # webs_demo (main)
```

**Important:** All following commands must be run from inside the `autoppia_web_agents_subnet` directory.

The setup scripts will automatically look for `autoppia_iwa` and `autoppia_webs_demo` as sibling repositories in these default paths:

- `../autoppia_iwa` (relative to `autoppia_web_agents_subnet`)
- `../autoppia_webs_demo` (relative to `autoppia_web_agents_subnet`)

**If your repositories are already in these default locations (as siblings), you do NOT need to export any variables.** The script will find them automatically.

**Only if your repositories are in a different location**, export the actual paths:

```bash
# ONLY export if repos are NOT in default sibling location
# Replace with YOUR ACTUAL paths (NOT the example paths below!)
export IWA_PATH=/home/youruser/path/to/autoppia_iwa
export WEBS_DEMO_PATH=/home/youruser/path/to/autoppia_webs_demo
```

> ⚠️ **Warning:** Do NOT use placeholder paths like `/path/to/autoppia_iwa` - these are just examples and will cause errors. Only export if you need to override the default paths.

### **System Dependencies**

```bash
# Navigate to the subnet repository (do this once)
cd autoppia_web_agents_subnet

# Install system dependencies
chmod +x scripts/validator/main/install_dependencies.sh
./scripts/validator/main/install_dependencies.sh
```

> **Note:** All following commands assume you're already in the `autoppia_web_agents_subnet` directory. If you navigate away, make sure to `cd` back to it.

### **Validator Setup**

```bash
# Setup Python environment and packages (continue from repository directory)
chmod +x scripts/validator/main/setup.sh
./scripts/validator/main/setup.sh
```

### **Environment Configuration**

```bash
# Configure environment (continue from repository directory)
cp .env.validator-example .env
# Edit .env with your specific settings
```

---

## 🤖 2. LLM Configuration

The validator uses IWA to generate tasks, which requires an LLM provider. Choose one:

> Startup safety check: the validator now validates gateway provider keys at boot.
> Set `GATEWAY_ALLOWED_PROVIDERS` in `.env` (for example `openai` or `openai,chutes`).
> If any allowed provider key is missing, validator exits immediately with an explicit error.

### **Option A: OpenAI API** 🌐 (No GPU Required)

Edit your `.env` file:

```bash
LLM_PROVIDER="openai"
OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
OPENAI_MODEL="gpt-4o-mini"
OPENAI_MAX_TOKENS="10000"
OPENAI_TEMPERATURE="0.7"
```

### **Option B: Chutes LLM** 🌐 (No GPU Required)

Edit your `.env` file:

```bash
LLM_PROVIDER="chutes"
CHUTES_BASE_URL="https://your-username-your-chute.chutes.ai/v1"
CHUTES_API_KEY="cpk_your_api_key_here"
CHUTES_MODEL="meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct"
CHUTES_MAX_TOKENS=2048
CHUTES_TEMPERATURE=0.7
CHUTES_USE_BEARER=False
```

---

## 🌐 3. Demo Webs Setup

### **Docker Installation**

```bash
# Install Docker (if not already installed) - from repository directory
chmod +x scripts/validator/demo-webs/install_docker.sh
./scripts/validator/demo-webs/install_docker.sh
```

### **Deploy Demo Webs**

```bash
# Setup demo web applications (continue from repository directory)
chmod +x scripts/validator/demo-webs/deploy_demo_webs.sh
./scripts/validator/demo-webs/deploy_demo_webs.sh
```

> **Note:** The script automatically uses `../autoppia_webs_demo` as the default path. If your repository is in a different location, export `WEBS_DEMO_PATH` before running the script:
>
> ```bash
> export WEBS_DEMO_PATH=/path/to/autoppia_webs_demo
> ./scripts/validator/demo-webs/deploy_demo_webs.sh
> ```

### **Configuration** (Optional)

Edit `.env` to customize endpoints:

```bash
DEMO_WEBS_ENDPOINT=http://localhost
DEMO_WEBS_STARTING_PORT=8000
```

#### **Configuration Options**

| Variable                  | Description            | Default            | Example                |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------ | ---------------------- |
| `DEMO_WEBS_ENDPOINT`      | Base URL for demo webs | `http://localhost` | `http://192.168.1.100` |
| `DEMO_WEBS_STARTING_PORT` | Starting port number   | `8000`             | `9000`                 |

🔧 **Remote Setup**: Change endpoint to your demo webs server IP for distributed deployment.

---

## 🧪 4. Prerequisite Checklist (Demo Webs + DB + Web Server)

Before running the validator, ensure demo webs are actually up and reachable:

1. **Demo web containers are running** (expected set of demo sites).
2. **Database container** is running (Postgres for demo apps).
3. **Web server / API container** is running (webs_server / API).

Quick check (example):

```bash
docker ps --format "table {{.Names}}\t{{.Image}}\t{{.Status}}\t{{.Ports}}"
```

You should see multiple demo web containers (ports like `8000+`), plus a DB container and a `webs_server` API container. Some deployments run a single container per demo site; others reuse shared services—so **do not rely on the exact container count**.

---

## 🧱 5. Sandbox Gateway (Required for Miner Isolation)

The validator runs miner code in sandboxed containers through a gateway. This requires Docker and will be auto-managed by the validator on first evaluation.

Key env vars (set in `.env`):

- `SANDBOX_GATEWAY_INSTANCE` (unique string per validator process)
- `SANDBOX_GATEWAY_PORT_OFFSET` (unique port offset per validator process)
- `SANDBOX_INSTANCE` (unique string for container naming)

If you are running **multiple validators on one host**, each must use a unique combination of these values.

---

## ✅ 6. Validator Deployment

### **Starting the Validator**

```bash
# Activate virtual environment (from repository directory)
source validator_env/bin/activate

# Start the validator with PM2
pm2 start neurons/validator.py \
  --name "subnet-36-validator" \
  --interpreter python \
  -- \
  --netuid 36 \
  --subtensor.network finney \
  --wallet.name your_coldkey \
  --wallet.hotkey your_hotkey \
  --logging.debug
```

---

## 🔄 7. Updates & Maintenance

### **Auto-Update Setup**

Enable automatic updates with safe rollback:

#### **Edit Script Configuration (Recommended)**

**Step 1**: Edit the auto-update script (from repository directory):

```bash
nano scripts/validator/update/auto_update_deploy.sh
```

**Step 2**: Modify these configuration lines in the script:

```bash
# Change these lines to match your setup:
PROCESS_NAME="subnet-36-validator"      # Your PM2 process name
WALLET_NAME="your_coldkey"              # Your actual coldkey
WALLET_HOTKEY="your_hotkey"             # Your actual hotkey
SUBTENSOR_PARAM="--subtensor.network finney"  # Subtensor network
```

**Step 3**: Start the auto-update service (from repository directory):

```bash
chmod +x scripts/validator/update/auto_update_deploy.sh
pm2 start --name auto_update_validator \
  --interpreter /bin/bash \
  scripts/validator/update/auto_update_deploy.sh
```

**Auto-Update Features**:

- ✅ Automatic version checking (every 2 minutes by default)
- ✅ Safe deployment with rollback capability
- ✅ Zero-downtime updates
- ✅ Configurable check intervals

### **Manual Updates**

Update all components manually (from repository directory):

```bash
# Complete update
chmod +x scripts/validator/update/update_deploy.sh
./scripts/validator/update/update_deploy.sh
```

---

## 📊 6. Reports Module

The validator automatically generates and sends detailed round reports via email at the end of each round. Reports include round statistics, miner performance, consensus data, and any errors or warnings.

### **Email Configuration**

Configure email settings in your `.env` file using `REPORT_MONITOR_*` variables:

```bash
# Validator Email Report Configuration
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_HOST=smtp.your-provider.com
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_PORT=587
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_USERNAME=user@domain.com
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_PASSWORD=your-password
REPORT_MONITOR_EMAIL_FROM=report@domain.com
REPORT_MONITOR_EMAIL_TO=recipient1@domain.com,recipient2@domain.com
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_TLS=true
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_SSL=false
```

**Note:** Reports are sent automatically at the end of each round. No additional PM2 process is needed.

### **Log Splitting by Round (Optional)**

To organize validator logs by round for easier analysis, you can use the log splitter script. This monitors your PM2 validator log file and automatically creates separate log files for each round:

```bash
pm2 start scripts/validator/utils/simple_log_splitter_v2.py \
  --name "validator-log-splitter" \
  --interpreter python3 \
  -- \
  --log-file ~/.pm2/logs/validator-out.log \
  --output-dir data/logs/rounds
```

**Replace:**

- `--log-file` with your actual PM2 validator log file path (e.g., `~/.pm2/logs/validator-6am-out.log`)
- `--output-dir` with your desired output directory path

This will automatically split the validator logs into separate files per round (e.g., `round_598.log`, `round_599.log`) in the specified output directory.

## 🆘 Support & Contact

Need help? Contact our team on Discord:

- **@Daryxx**
- **@Riiveer**

---

## ⚠️ Important Notes

- 🐳 **Dependencies**: Demo webs require Docker and Docker Compose
- 🌍 **Scalability**: All components support distributed deployment across multiple machines
- 🔒 **Security**: Ensure proper firewall configuration for remote deployments
- 🔄 **Auto-Updates**: Option 1 (editing script) is recommended as it persists configuration across restarts

```

```

Commit message:

Clarify env defaults in docs

docs/validator.md, after:

# 🚀 Validator Guide for Subnet 36

## 📋 System Requirements

### **Linux Distribution Support**

Our `install_dependencies.sh` script currently supports:

- **Ubuntu 22.04 LTS** (Jammy) ✅
- **Ubuntu 24.04 LTS** (Noble) ✅

⚠️ **Note**: For other Ubuntu versions, manually adjust dependencies in the installation script.

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

The deployment uses a **modular architecture** - each component can be deployed separately:

| Component       | Requirements         | Notes             |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| **Validator**   | CPU only             | Lightweight setup |
| **LLM Service** | OpenAI API or Chutes | No GPU required   |
| **Demo Webs**   | CPU only             | Docker required   |

💡 **Tip**: Components can run on different machines - configure `.env` with appropriate URLs.

---

## 🔧 1. Initial Setup

### **Repository Setup**

Clone the repositories as siblings:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/autoppia/autoppia_web_agents_subnet
git clone https://github.com/autoppia/autoppia_iwa.git          # IWA (main)
git clone https://github.com/autoppia/autoppia_webs_demo.git    # webs_demo (main)
```

**Important:** All following commands must be run from inside the `autoppia_web_agents_subnet` directory.

The setup scripts will automatically look for `autoppia_iwa` and `autoppia_webs_demo` as sibling repositories in these default paths:

- `../autoppia_iwa` (relative to `autoppia_web_agents_subnet`)
- `../autoppia_webs_demo` (relative to `autoppia_web_agents_subnet`)

**If your repositories are already in these default locations (as siblings), you do NOT need to export any variables.** The script will find them automatically.

**Only if your repositories are in a different location**, export the actual paths:

```bash
# ONLY export if repos are NOT in default sibling location
# Replace with YOUR ACTUAL paths (NOT the example paths below!)
export IWA_PATH=/home/youruser/path/to/autoppia_iwa
export WEBS_DEMO_PATH=/home/youruser/path/to/autoppia_webs_demo
```

> ⚠️ **Warning:** Do NOT use placeholder paths like `/path/to/autoppia_iwa` - these are just examples and will cause errors. Only export if you need to override the default paths.

### **System Dependencies**

```bash
# Navigate to the subnet repository (do this once)
cd autoppia_web_agents_subnet

# Install system dependencies
chmod +x scripts/validator/main/install_dependencies.sh
./scripts/validator/main/install_dependencies.sh
```

> **Note:** All following commands assume you're already in the `autoppia_web_agents_subnet` directory. If you navigate away, make sure to `cd` back to it.

### **Validator Setup**

```bash
# Setup Python environment and packages (continue from repository directory)
chmod +x scripts/validator/main/setup.sh
./scripts/validator/main/setup.sh
```

### **Environment Configuration**

```bash
# Configure environment (continue from repository directory)
cp .env.validator-example .env
# Edit .env with your specific settings
```

---

## 🤖 2. LLM Configuration

The validator uses IWA to generate tasks, which requires an LLM provider. Choose one:

> Startup safety check: the validator now validates gateway provider keys at boot.
> Set `GATEWAY_ALLOWED_PROVIDERS` in `.env` (for example `openai` or `openai,chutes`).
> If any allowed provider key is missing, validator exits immediately with an explicit error.

### **Option A: OpenAI API** 🌐 (No GPU Required)

Edit your `.env` file:

```bash
LLM_PROVIDER="openai"
OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
OPENAI_MODEL="gpt-4o-mini"
OPENAI_MAX_TOKENS="10000"
OPENAI_TEMPERATURE="0.7"
```

### **Option B: Chutes LLM** 🌐 (No GPU Required)

Edit your `.env` file:

```bash
LLM_PROVIDER="chutes"
CHUTES_BASE_URL="https://your-username-your-chute.chutes.ai/v1"
CHUTES_API_KEY="cpk_your_api_key_here"
CHUTES_MODEL="meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct"
CHUTES_MAX_TOKENS=2048
CHUTES_TEMPERATURE=0.7
CHUTES_USE_BEARER=False
```

---

## 🌐 3. Demo Webs Setup

### **Docker Installation**

```bash
# Install Docker (if not already installed) - from repository directory
chmod +x scripts/validator/demo-webs/install_docker.sh
./scripts/validator/demo-webs/install_docker.sh
```

### **Deploy Demo Webs**

```bash
# Setup demo web applications (continue from repository directory)
chmod +x scripts/validator/demo-webs/deploy_demo_webs.sh
./scripts/validator/demo-webs/deploy_demo_webs.sh
```

> **Note:** The script automatically uses `../autoppia_webs_demo` as the default path. If your repository is in a different location, export `WEBS_DEMO_PATH` before running the script:
>
> ```bash
> export WEBS_DEMO_PATH=/path/to/autoppia_webs_demo
> ./scripts/validator/demo-webs/deploy_demo_webs.sh
> ```

### **Configuration** (Optional)

Edit `.env` to customize endpoints:

```bash
DEMO_WEBS_ENDPOINT=http://localhost
DEMO_WEBS_STARTING_PORT=8000
```

#### **Configuration Options**

| Variable                  | Description            | Default            | Example                |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------ | ---------------------- |
| `DEMO_WEBS_ENDPOINT`      | Base URL for demo webs | `http://localhost` | `http://192.168.1.100` |
| `DEMO_WEBS_STARTING_PORT` | Starting port number   | `8000`             | `9000`                 |

🔧 **Remote Setup**: Change endpoint to your demo webs server IP for distributed deployment.

---

## 🧪 4. Prerequisite Checklist (Demo Webs + DB + Web Server)

Before running the validator, ensure demo webs are actually up and reachable:

1. **Demo web containers are running** (expected set of demo sites).
2. **Database container** is running (Postgres for demo apps).
3. **Web server / API container** is running (webs_server / API).

Quick check (example):

```bash
docker ps --format "table {{.Names}}\t{{.Image}}\t{{.Status}}\t{{.Ports}}"
```

You should see multiple demo web containers (ports like `8000+`), plus a DB container and a `webs_server` API container. Some deployments run a single container per demo site; others reuse shared services—so **do not rely on the exact container count**.

---

## 🧱 5. Sandbox Gateway (Required for Miner Isolation)

The validator runs miner code in sandboxed containers through a gateway. This requires Docker and will be auto-managed by the validator on first evaluation.

Key env vars (set in `.env`):

- `SANDBOX_GATEWAY_INSTANCE` (unique string per validator process)
- `SANDBOX_GATEWAY_PORT_OFFSET` (unique port offset per validator process)
- `SANDBOX_INSTANCE` (unique string for container naming)

Defaults: if you run a single validator, you can omit these and use the defaults from `autoppia_web_agents_subnet/validator/config.py`.

If you are running **multiple validators on one host**, each must use a unique combination of these values.

---

## ✅ 6. Validator Deployment

### **Starting the Validator**

```bash
# Activate virtual environment (from repository directory)
source validator_env/bin/activate

# Start the validator with PM2
pm2 start neurons/validator.py \
  --name "subnet-36-validator" \
  --interpreter python \
  -- \
  --netuid 36 \
  --subtensor.network finney \
  --wallet.name your_coldkey \
  --wallet.hotkey your_hotkey \
  --logging.debug
```

---

## 🔄 7. Updates & Maintenance

### **Auto-Update Setup**

Enable automatic updates with safe rollback:

#### **Edit Script Configuration (Recommended)**

**Step 1**: Edit the auto-update script (from repository directory):

```bash
nano scripts/validator/update/auto_update_deploy.sh
```

**Step 2**: Modify these configuration lines in the script:

```bash
# Change these lines to match your setup:
PROCESS_NAME="subnet-36-validator"      # Your PM2 process name
WALLET_NAME="your_coldkey"              # Your actual coldkey
WALLET_HOTKEY="your_hotkey"             # Your actual hotkey
SUBTENSOR_PARAM="--subtensor.network finney"  # Subtensor network
```

**Step 3**: Start the auto-update service (from repository directory):

```bash
chmod +x scripts/validator/update/auto_update_deploy.sh
pm2 start --name auto_update_validator \
  --interpreter /bin/bash \
  scripts/validator/update/auto_update_deploy.sh
```

**Auto-Update Features**:

- ✅ Automatic version checking (every 2 minutes by default)
- ✅ Safe deployment with rollback capability
- ✅ Zero-downtime updates
- ✅ Configurable check intervals

### **Manual Updates**

Update all components manually (from repository directory):

```bash
# Complete update
chmod +x scripts/validator/update/update_deploy.sh
./scripts/validator/update/update_deploy.sh
```

---

## 📊 6. Reports Module

The validator automatically generates and sends detailed round reports via email at the end of each round. Reports include round statistics, miner performance, consensus data, and any errors or warnings.

### **Email Configuration**

Configure email settings in your `.env` file using `REPORT_MONITOR_*` variables:

```bash
# Validator Email Report Configuration
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_HOST=smtp.your-provider.com
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_PORT=587
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_USERNAME=user@domain.com
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_PASSWORD=your-password
REPORT_MONITOR_EMAIL_FROM=report@domain.com
REPORT_MONITOR_EMAIL_TO=recipient1@domain.com,recipient2@domain.com
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_TLS=true
REPORT_MONITOR_SMTP_SSL=false
```

**Note:** Reports are sent automatically at the end of each round. No additional PM2 process is needed.

### **Log Splitting by Round (Optional)**

To organize validator logs by round for easier analysis, you can use the log splitter script. This monitors your PM2 validator log file and automatically creates separate log files for each round:

```bash
pm2 start scripts/validator/utils/simple_log_splitter_v2.py \
  --name "validator-log-splitter" \
  --interpreter python3 \
  -- \
  --log-file ~/.pm2/logs/validator-out.log \
  --output-dir data/logs/rounds
```

**Replace:**

- `--log-file` with your actual PM2 validator log file path (e.g., `~/.pm2/logs/validator-6am-out.log`)
- `--output-dir` with your desired output directory path

This will automatically split the validator logs into separate files per round (e.g., `round_598.log`, `round_599.log`) in the specified output directory.

## 🆘 Support & Contact

Need help? Contact our team on Discord:

- **@Daryxx**
- **@Riiveer**

---

## ⚠️ Important Notes

- 🐳 **Dependencies**: Demo webs require Docker and Docker Compose
- 🌍 **Scalability**: All components support distributed deployment across multiple machines
- 🔒 **Security**: Ensure proper firewall configuration for remote deployments
- 🔄 **Auto-Updates**: Option 1 (editing script) is recommended as it persists configuration across restarts

```

```
